-What is this text file for?

A very simple FAQ so you can get to know what this project is about.

-What is Pokemon Patched Crystal?

Pokemon Patched Crystal is a romhack of Pokemon Crystal which doesnt drastically
alter the game's content and gameplay but instead it enhances it with bugfixes
and true Quality of Life features that fit the series' setting and theming.

-What are the changes exactly?

Here's a full feature list:

The game's bugs and glitches have been fixed, most notable fixes are: all pokeballs working
as intented, held items working correctly, no Arbitrary Code Execution, various battle glitches/bugs and many other issues.

You can obtain all 251 pokemon without the need to do trades with other Gen 1 and Gen 2 games.
Version exclusives can now be found in the wild and certain evolution methods have been altered. (More info below)

The time when the sun rises and sets has been tweaked to be more immersive
and so that players can take advantage out of all three parts of the day in the game.

TMs are not consumed after being used.

When picking up or receiving TMs as gifts the name of the move will also be shown.

The starter pokemon sprites that are being shown before picking one are now in color.

There's a Move Reminder NPC at Move Deleter's house to teach your pokemon forgotten leveling moves.

Catching pokemon yields EXP to pokemon that took part in the battle.

Berry and apricorn trees now drop between 1 to 5 berries/apricorns.

Kurt will finish making balls instantly instead of taking an entire day.

The Lucky Number Show is now daily instead of weekly.

The Trainer House battle no longer has a daily limit.

The move tutor in Goldenrod City appears every Monday in addition to his usual schedule.

You can challenge all Gym Leaders to a rematch as many times as you want after getting access to MT. Silver.

Both Gym Leaders and the Elite Four now have stronger teams for rematches similarly to the Gen 2 remakes.

The levels of teams regular trainers use in rematches after you complete the Power Plant quest are matching the ones in the Gen 2 remakes.

The trainer card now includes an extra page for Kanto badges and all 16 badges are now in color.

You can now see the shiny variant of a pokemon in the pokedex by pressing SELECT.

You can now choose one of many unique colors for the Pokedex UI in its SELECT menu.

After encountering the legendary beasts at the Burnt Tower, Entei and Raikou are registered as SEEN on the Pokedex.

All 251 pokemon now have uniquely colored sprites in menus and the overworld, shiny variants and shiny egg included.

You are now able to release EGGs.

An "Instant" text scrolling speed option is added.

Both the Battle Tower and Buena's Password feature additional rewards.

Carrie, the girl that enables Mystery Gift at the Goldenrod Department Store will offer
to Mystery Gift with you once per day. The item range is exactly the same as the real
Mystery Gift along with the ever rare Mirage and Bluesky mail (decorations are excluded at the moment)

By smashing rocks there's a chance to find certain items, including fossils. (More info below)

Easily change the Real Time Clock by pressing A on the Pokegear Calendar page or DOWN + B on the title screen.

Weather conditions in battle are now shown if active via an appropriate icon in the move selection menu.

Time of day is also shown with an icon in the main battle menu.

A pocket PC is given to you as a reward from the programmer in the Celadon Mansion after completing the Pokedex.

-Since all 251 pokemon can be obtained, what is the way to catch Celebi and the Kanto legendaries?

The Celebi event has been restored. It will occur normally once you beat the Elite Four like in the Virtual Console release of Pokemon Crystal.

The Kanto legendaries have been placed onto the overworld, Mew included.

-What about fossil pokemon?

By smashing rocks there's a chance you'll get one of three (3) Kanto fossils. You can revive them the same way you can
in Gen 1 at the corresponding NPC which is in the Ruins of Alph Research Center.

-What are the altered evolution methods?

Certain pokemon now evolve thanks to the item "Link Cord" which acts like an evolutionary stone much like in a certain other game.
More info on the new encounters and ways to evolve pokemon can be found in the "Encounters and Evolutions.txt" file.

-What is the full list of Battle Tower rewards?

Hp Up x5
Protein x5
Iron x5
Carbos x5
Calcium x5
Max Revive x5
Rare Candy x5
Nugget x5
PP Up x5
Dire Hit x5
Guard Spec. x5
Berserk Gene x1
Scope Lens x1
Lucky Punch x1
Light Ball x1
Twisted Spoon x1
Normal Box x1
Gorgeous Box x1
Master Ball x1

-Can you Link Trade and/or Battle in this romhack?

Yes but also no. Trading works 100% and fixes for bugs/glitches that occur during Link Battles have been implemented, however Link Battles
should be between two (2) Patched Crystal games only, otherwise there will be desynchronization and corruption due to these changes.

-What about other kinds of compatibility?

PPC can be used with both Stadium games just fine either on real hardware or emulation (Except for the GB Tower).
Save editors like PokeHex or PKSM still work, although certain pokemon will be marked as "illegal" due to the new encounter and evolution methods.
PPC is fully compatible with the PokemonGB Online Trades project.
PPC saves are also compatible with certain features hosted on the bluemoonfalls.com website.

-When i check my items in PokeHex i get an invalid item warning and/or when i do the same in the Stadium games i carry a "Teru-Sama" or a "Blank" item, whats that about?

You probably carry the "Link Cord" item or the "Pocket PC" key item. Since these items dont exist in the original game, the instances above treat them
as the original "Teru-Sama" item which is nothing but a memory placeholder with no actual use so be wary of that.

-My Pocket PC key item is gone, how can i get it back?

You can get a new one by simply talking to the Programmer in Celadon Mansion.

-What else can be expected from this project in the future?

Right now, this romhack is considered "complete" as the initial goal of this project was to create my dream version of Crystal and it
reached that status. However, new vanilla friendly features, tweaks or maintenance updates are not off the table.

-Why updates roll at such irregular rate?

Its not on purpose. Life gets in the way and im not a fully fledged programmer, most of my work is based on very helpful guides and individuals
and whenever something cool comes up i take the safe approach and try it out internaly until im certain its fit for a release.

-Any way i can help?

You can always report any bugs, throw your suggestions, etc. You can reach out to me through a discord server.
https://discord.com/invite/5Xu54kDeJS